conversations/v3/README.md, before:

# Release notes

## 3.0

### Breaking changes

- multi channel support dropped
- `from` moved to the top level object
- `media` container object replaced by simple media type structures
- templates define now specific sections, such as `header`, `body`, `buttons` in contrast to a simple list
- channel specific structures replaced by `content`
- bulk messages are now configured on the `messages` object instead of the channel specific one
- The concept of `applications` is replaced by a general `configurations` concept

### Features

#### Harmonized data models between all channels

With this release we put a major effort in reworking and harmonizing the data models between all channels.

Switching between channels for the "standard types" text, and most media messages types, can now be done by 
exchanging the `channel`, `from` and `to`.

We started introducing the concept of components on all places where complex objects are needed. 

#### WeChat (Beta)

With this release an early beta access to our WeChat integration is available. Please reach out to us for details.

#### Telegram (Beta)

With this release an early beta access to our Telegram integration is available. Please reach out to us for details.

#### Upload outbound media files (Beta)

With this release we start providing the option to upload media files prior to the message sending and use them later
when messages are sent.

Please reach out to us for details.

#### _Configurations_ replacing _Applications_

With this release we introduce a generic Configurations concept. 

The Configurations concept starts with the management of callbacks and provides you insights into the scopes 
available to your API account and Channels.

##### Callbacks
We start with providing access to  callback configurations on the API account level (formerly known as Default application), and the channel sender 
id specific level.

This enables you to have a default for all of your channels and define specific overrides on a per channel base.

The settings are resolved later to an effective callback configuration, which enables you to only override a part of the 
global callback configuration, when needed.


#### Scope based access control

With this release we make use of scope based access control to overcome the known limitations of the formerly used concept
of messaging and managing accounts.

In case of WhatsApp: 

This enables us to grant the managing (or owning account), and the messaging account rights on the template management
for modification. As well to control if a profile can be configured by the messaging account.


### Migration 

In order to use the new API the following changes need to be applied

(!) the WhatsApp channel is used as an example

(!) this is not exhaustive for all media types

#### channels -> channel

*V2*

    {
      "channels" : ["whatsapp"] 
    }
*V3*

    {
      "channel" : "whatsapp"
    }

#### {channelType}.from -> from

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "from": "1324213432"
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "from": "1324213432"
    }

#### {channelType} -> content

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "contentType": "text"
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "content" : {
        "contentType": "text"
      }
    }

#### media -> specific media

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "contentType": "media",
        "media" : {
          "type": image",
          "url" : "https://www.my.cool.image.png"
        }
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "content" : {
        "contentType": "image",
        "image" : {
          "url" : "https://www.my.cool.image.png"
        }
      }
    }

#### template components -> specific components

*V2*

    "template": {
    "templateId": "event_review",
    "language": {
      "policy": "deterministic",
      "code": "en"
    },
    "components": [
      {
        "type": "header",
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "media",
            "media": {
              "url": "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
              "type": "image"
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "type": "body",
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "Peter"
          },
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "API Beta"
          },
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "December 2020"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "type": "button",
        "subType": "quick_reply",
        "index": 0,
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "payload",
            "payload": "test payload"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
    }

*V3*

    "template": {
    "templateId": "event_review",
    "templateLanguage": "en",
    "components" : {
      "header" : [
        {
          "type": "image",
          "image": {
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg"
          }
        }
      ],
      "body" : [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "Peter"
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "API Beta"
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "December 2020"
        }
      ],
      "button" : [
        {
          "type" : "quick_reply",
          "index": 0,
          "payload": "test payload"
        }
      ]
    }
    }

#### Bulk messages

*v2*

    {
    "channel": "whatsapp",
    "from": "4923147790813",
    "to": "491728953754",
    "whatsapp": [
        {
          "contentType": "media",
          "media": {
            "type": "media",
            "url" : "https://www.tyntec.com/sites/default/files/uploads/1608_tyntec_CorporateBackground.pdf",
 	        "caption" : "tyntec corporate background",
            "filename" : "background.pdf"
          }
        },
        {
          "contentType": "media",
          "media": {
            "type": "image",
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
 	        "caption" : "nice!"
          }
        }
      ]
    }

*V3*

    {
    "channel": "whatsapp",
    "from": "4923147790813",
    "to": "491728953754",
    "messages": [
      {
        "contentType": "document",
        "document": {
            "url" : "https://www.tyntec.com/sites/default/files/uploads/1608_tyntec_CorporateBackground.pdf",
 	        "caption" : "tyntec corporate background",
            "filename" : "background.pdf"
        }
      },
      {
        "contentType": "image",
        "image": {
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
 	        "caption" : "nice!"
        }
      }
      ]
    }

Commit message:

add missing section for http header and signature config

conversations/v3/README.md, after:

# Release notes

## 3.0

### Breaking changes

- multi channel support dropped
- `from` moved to the top level object
- `media` container object replaced by simple media type structures
- templates define now specific sections, such as `header`, `body`, `buttons` in contrast to a simple list
- channel specific structures replaced by `content`
- bulk messages are now configured on the `messages` object instead of the channel specific one
- The concept of `applications` is replaced by a general `configurations` concept

### Features

#### Harmonized data models between all channels

With this release we put a major effort in reworking and harmonizing the data models between all channels.

Switching between channels for the "standard types" text, and most media messages types, can now be done by 
exchanging the `channel`, `from` and `to`.

We started introducing the concept of components on all places where complex objects are needed. 

#### WeChat (Beta)

With this release an early beta access to our WeChat integration is available. Please reach out to us for details.

#### Telegram (Beta)

With this release an early beta access to our Telegram integration is available. Please reach out to us for details.

#### Upload outbound media files (Beta)

With this release we start providing the option to upload media files prior to the message sending and use them later
when messages are sent.

Please reach out to us for details.

#### _Configurations_ replacing _Applications_

With this release we introduce a generic Configurations concept. 

The Configurations concept starts with the management of callbacks and provides you insights into the scopes 
available to your API account and Channels.

##### Callbacks
We start with providing access to  callback configurations on the API account level (formerly known as Default application), and the channel sender 
id specific level.

This enables you to have a default for all of your channels and define specific overrides on a per channel base.

The settings are resolved later to an effective callback configuration, which enables you to only override a part of the 
global callback configuration, when needed.

The formerly used **PATCH** `/applications/default` is translated to change the API account level callback configuration.

In addition, we start providing you control over the HTTP header sent which each request and configure 
a message signature to detect tampering during the transport. 

#### Scope based access control

With this release we make use of scope based access control to overcome the known limitations of the formerly used concept
of messaging and managing accounts.

In case of WhatsApp: 

This enables us to grant the managing (or owning account), and the messaging account rights on the template management
for modification. As well to control if a profile can be configured by the messaging account.


### Migration 

In order to use the new API the following changes need to be applied

(!) the WhatsApp channel is used as an example

(!) this is not exhaustive for all media types

#### channels -> channel

*V2*

    {
      "channels" : ["whatsapp"] 
    }
*V3*

    {
      "channel" : "whatsapp"
    }

#### {channelType}.from -> from

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "from": "1324213432"
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "from": "1324213432"
    }

#### {channelType} -> content

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "contentType": "text"
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "content" : {
        "contentType": "text"
      }
    }

#### media -> specific media

*V2*

    {
      "whatsapp" : {
        "contentType": "media",
        "media" : {
          "type": image",
          "url" : "https://www.my.cool.image.png"
        }
      }
    }

*V3*

    {
      "content" : {
        "contentType": "image",
        "image" : {
          "url" : "https://www.my.cool.image.png"
        }
      }
    }

#### template components -> specific components

*V2*

    "template": {
    "templateId": "event_review",
    "language": {
      "policy": "deterministic",
      "code": "en"
    },
    "components": [
      {
        "type": "header",
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "media",
            "media": {
              "url": "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
              "type": "image"
            }
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "type": "body",
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "Peter"
          },
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "API Beta"
          },
          {
            "type": "text",
            "text": "December 2020"
          }
        ]
      },
      {
        "type": "button",
        "subType": "quick_reply",
        "index": 0,
        "parameters": [
          {
            "type": "payload",
            "payload": "test payload"
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
    }

*V3*

    "template": {
    "templateId": "event_review",
    "templateLanguage": "en",
    "components" : {
      "header" : [
        {
          "type": "image",
          "image": {
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg"
          }
        }
      ],
      "body" : [
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "Peter"
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "API Beta"
        },
        {
          "type": "text",
          "text": "December 2020"
        }
      ],
      "button" : [
        {
          "type" : "quick_reply",
          "index": 0,
          "payload": "test payload"
        }
      ]
    }
    }

#### Bulk messages

*v2*

    {
    "channel": "whatsapp",
    "from": "4923147790813",
    "to": "491728953754",
    "whatsapp": [
        {
          "contentType": "media",
          "media": {
            "type": "media",
            "url" : "https://www.tyntec.com/sites/default/files/uploads/1608_tyntec_CorporateBackground.pdf",
 	        "caption" : "tyntec corporate background",
            "filename" : "background.pdf"
          }
        },
        {
          "contentType": "media",
          "media": {
            "type": "image",
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
 	        "caption" : "nice!"
          }
        }
      ]
    }

*V3*

    {
    "channel": "whatsapp",
    "from": "4923147790813",
    "to": "491728953754",
    "messages": [
      {
        "contentType": "document",
        "document": {
            "url" : "https://www.tyntec.com/sites/default/files/uploads/1608_tyntec_CorporateBackground.pdf",
 	        "caption" : "tyntec corporate background",
            "filename" : "background.pdf"
        }
      },
      {
        "contentType": "image",
        "image": {
            "url" : "https://images.freeimages.com/images/small-previews/fec/sunset-rays-1391805.jpg",
 	        "caption" : "nice!"
        }
      }
      ]
    }
